Philosophy

We have three categories which I will call 'Humans' , 'Tracking' and 'Bridging '. 'Humans' have as their core data structure the 'profile'. 'Tracking' has as its core data structure 'tasks' and the linked sub-structure 'steps'. Bridging has as its core data structure 'task_assignments' . So on one side we have humans, on the other side we have tracking and what links them is bridging. Humans are represented by profiles. When a human gets bridged to tracking they are linked. This is when a 'profile' is linked via 'task_assignments' to a 'task'. In the process of bridging the two we bring into existence a category 'student' we may also bring into existence the category 'manager'. These are fleeting categories. Inside 'tracking' we have two closely related data types 'tasks' and 'steps'. Steps are a sub category of tasks. Steps cannot exist alone. Tasks always have at least 3 steps. This structure can be seen in the menu of testData. Profiles are created by humans signing-up to the system. Tasks are created by admin. Tasks are normally to track an external process that is repeated many times as independent processes. The task is just a traking utility it does not perform the task that it tracks. (It is a 'to do' list with progress and built-in detailed instructions) When a task is created this brings into existence the category of 'author'. An author is a profile associated with the human who created the task. Tasks have a subcategory of 'steps' which as a child inherits the attributes of task plus a step_order which is an integer to enable the steps to be placed in order. Therefore on the human side we have 'profiles' which are long term. These can be marked as authors, students and managers. Authors depend on that human having created a task & the task not being deleted. Students depend on that human being assigned a task. Managers depend on that human being defined as the manager of a task in the creation of a task or by being assigned to be the manager when a task is assigned. Without an assignment a task is just words on a list. Tasks do not do anything, they are a method of tracking something that humans do. A profile is a data structure and data associated with an individual human. A task is a definition of a process that may be carried out. It isn't the process, it tracks the progress of a process. Having said that there is an exciting concept of 'abstract profiles' which has not yet been implemented. An abstract profile is a data structure and data that represents organisations, relational groupings and abstract concepts. This may be hard to grasp and we can discuss it separately. For the moment what thoughts do you have of this description?

